Preparation Time : 45 mins.
Cooking Time : 1 hour.
Serves 4. 

Ingredients


For the chole
1 cup kabuli chana (white chick peas), soaked overnight
1 tea bag or tsp tea leaves , tied in a muslin cloth (optional)
1/2 tsp cumin seeds (jeera)
1 onion, finely chopped
12 mm (1/2") piece of ginger (adrak), grated
2 cloves of garlic (lehsun), grated
2 tsp chole masala
2 tsp chilli powder
2 tsp dried mango powder (amchur)
1/4 tsp turmeric powder (haldi)
1 tbsp coriander (dhania) powder
1 tsp cumin seeds (jeera) powder
2 tbsp oil
salt to taste

For the bhature
1/2 cup plain flour (maida)
1/2 cup potatoes, boiled and grated
1 1/2 tsp oil
salt to taste
oil for deep-frying

For serving
1 onion, sliced
4 lemon wedges

Method


For the chole

   1. Pressure cook the Kabuli chana with the tea bag for 3 whistles until they are soft . Drain and keep aside. Discard the tea bag.
   2. Heat the oil in a pan, add the cumin seeds. When the seeds crackle, add the onion, ginger and garlic and sauté till the onion is golden brown.
   3. Add the chole masala, chilli powder, amchur, turmeric powder, coriander powder, cumin seed powder and salt and sauté for another minute.
   4. Add the Kabuli chana and 1 cup of water and mix well. Simmer for 10 to 15 minutes. Keep aside 


For the bhature

   1. Combine the flour, potato, 1½ teaspoons of oil and salt and knead into a firm dough without using any water.
   2. Knead the dough very well till it is smooth
   3. Cover with a wet muslin cloth and rest the dough for 10 minutes
   4. Divide the dough into 4 equal parts and roll out into circles of 125 mm. (5") diameter.
   5. Deep fry in hot oil till the bhaturas puff up and both sides are golden brown.
   6. Serve hot with the chole, sliced onion and lemon wedges.

Tips

   1. While frying the bhature, press the centre lightly with a frying spoon so as to help it to puff up.
   2. Chole masala is a blend of spices which is readily available at most grocery stores. 

