BIRINAI !!!!!
Ingredients:
 
Mutton - ½ kg
Rice parboiled - 250 gms
Lemon Juice- 3 tspn
Almonds (Badam) - 10
Mint Leaves - few
Butter - 200 gms
chopped Coriander Leaves - handful
Cumin Seed - 1 spn
sliced Onion - 2
Brown Cardamom - 2
Oil - 4 pods
Cloves - 2
Ginger - 1 " piece
Saffron - 1 spn
Green Chilly chopped - 1 spn
Red Chili Powder - 1 spn
Cinnamon - 1"
Curd  - 2 cups
Milk - ½  cup
Water

Method:

wash and soak rice.
Then fry sliced onions to a golden brown color.
Soak saffron in water.
Now grind ginger, red chillies, garlic and almonds and fry these in butter.
Add it to the mutton and salt and stir for 5 minutes.
Now add water and cook onlow flame till meat becomes tender and about
1 cup of gravy is left.
Boil rice with salt in another pan.
Put curd into a piece of muslin cloth and let the water drain away.
Add cloves, cardomoms, cumin seed, mint leaves, chopped chillies and
coriander in drained curd.
Strain the saffron water and add lemon juice.
Add all this to mutton.
Sprinkle half of the boiled rice over the mutton and then spread a layer of
fried onion and then of rice again.
Now pour milk and some butter and cover the vessel.
Seal the edges of the pan with flour paste.
Place the can on flame for one hour.
Serve it very hot with some curry. 
------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------
MAlai kofta

Preparation Time: 30 min.
Cooking Time: 40 min.
Serves 6.


Ingredients

For the koftas

100 gms green peas
100 gms cauliflower, finely chopped
100 gms french beans, finely chopped
100 gms carrots, finely chopped
250 gms potatoes, boiled and mashed
2 tbsp bread crumbs
1 bread slice, soaked in water
1 tsp garam masala
1 tsp chilli powder
1 1/2 tsp lemon juice
oil for deep-frying
salt and black pepper (kalimirch) powder to taste

To be ground into a paste (for the koftas)
9 cloves garlic (lehsun)
25 mm. (1") piece of ginger (adrak)
7 green chillies

For the gravy
750 gms tomatoes
3 onions
4 cloves (laung / lavang)
2 small sticks cinnamon (dalchini)
1 tbsp cornflour
1 tsp sugar
1 tsp garam masala
1 tsp chilli powder
4 tbsp butter
salt and black pepper (kalimirch) powder to taste

To be ground into a paste (for the gravy)
15 cloves garlic (lehsun)
25 mm. (1") piece of ginger (adrak)
5 green chillies

For the baking
1 tbsp fresh cream
1/2 tbsp grated processed cheese

Method


For the koftas

    Boil the peas.
    Steam the cauliflower, french beans and carrots in a pressure cooker without adding water.
    Add the vegetables and peas to the potatoes and make a dough.
    Add 1 tablespoon of bread crumbs and the bread slice.
    Add the paste, garam masala, chilli powder, lemon juice and salt and form into kofta balls.
    Roll the koftas into the remaining bread crumbs and deep fry in oil to a golden brown colour. Keep aside.


For the gravy

    Put the tomatoes in hot water for 10 minutes. Remove and blend into a puree.
    Blend the onions in a liquidiser with very little water.
    Heat the butter, add the onions and stir fry for 5 minutes till light brown.
    Then add the cloves, cinnamon and paste and fry again for 2 minutes.
    Add the tomato puree and cook for 2 minutes.
    Add 1 teacup of water and boil for 3 to 4 minutes.
    Pour the mixture into a blender, add the cornflour and sugar and blend.
    Put to cook again and add the garam masala, chilli powder, salt and pepper and cook for 5 minutes.


How to proceed

    Arrange the koftas in an ovenproof dish. Pour the gravy and fresh cream over the koftas.
    Sprinkle the grated cheese on top and bake or grill for 10 to 15 minutes in a hot oven at 200 degree C (400 degree F ) until the cheese melts.


------------------------------------------------
Mutton Korma

Recipe of Mutton Korma

Ingredients

    1 tbsp Cumin Seeds
    4 tbsp Coriander Seeds
    1-2 tsp Cayenne Pepper
    1 tsp Saffron Threads
    3 tbsp Hot Milk
    6 tbsp Ghee or Clarified Butter
    2 middle-sized Onions, chopped
    5 Black Cardamom pods/ Cinnamon sticks
    4 Cloves
    3 Bay leaves
    1 Fresh Ginger, grated
    4 Garlic Cloves (minced)
    2 lb Boneless Lamb (cut into-1/2-inch cubes)
    1 cup fresh Yogurt (sweet)
    1/4 cup Cream
    1 tbsp Rose Water (heavy)
    1/4 cup Blanched Almond

Method

    Grind the cumin and coriander seeds in a spice mill, combine with the red pepper and place near the stove.
    Soak the saffron in hot milk.
    Heat the ghee or clarified butter in a large, shallow, heavy pan.
    Stir in the onions, cardamom pods, cinnamon, cloves and bay leaves. Cook over medium heat, stirring frequently, until the onions begin to turn reddish brown, about 15 minutes.
    Add the ginger and garlic and cook, stirring constantly and scraping the bottom of the pan, until the onions are reddish brown.
    Mix in the ground spices and cook, stirring constantly, for about 10 seconds, or until the spices release their fragrance.
    Dry the meat with paper towels and stir half of it into the spice mixture.
    Increase the heat to medium high and cook, stirring constantly, for a few minutes, making sure all the meat is coated with the spices.
    Stir in the remaining meat, and cook as before, scraping the bottom of the pan. If the mixture gets too dry, splash in a little water.
    Turn the heat to medium. Start adding the yogurt, 1 tbsp at a time, stirring constantly and incorporating it into the mixture before adding the next tablespoonful.
    Turn the heat to low. Cover the pan and simmer the meat for about 1 and 1/2 hours, or until the meat is very tender. If necessary, splash in a little water from time to time. When the meat is tender, add salt to taste.
    Stir the cream and cook until the sauce is thick. Stir in the saffron and rose water and heat thoroughly.
    Fry the almonds in a little oil until golden brown.
    Serve the lamb hot, garnished with the almonds.

-------------------------------------------------------------
BENGALI


Illish maacher bhapa

Ingredients:

250 gm Hilsa fish
2 slited Green Chillies
1/2 inch Ginger
1/2 tsp Black Mustard seeds
1/2 tsp Yellow Mustard seeds
1/2 tsp Turmeric powder
2 tbsp Mustard Oil
Salt to taste

Method:

1.Grind the chillies, ginger,black mustard, yellow mustard and half of the turmeric powder into smooth paste.
2.Marinate the fish  with salt and turmeric powder for 10-12 minutes.
3.In a pan place the fish and spread the ground paste over the fish.
4.Pour the oil in the top of fish.
5.Pour 2 cups of water into the cooker and place the pan on the ring in the pressure cooker.
6.Cover the lid and steam the fish for 7-8 minutes until cooked well.
7.Garnish with the coriander leaves and serve.

----------------------------------------------------------------
DAB CHINGRI

Servings : 2
Time Taken : 30-45 mins

Ingredients:

Small Prawn - 600 gms
Onion Paste - 80 gms
Milk - 120 ml
Coconut Milk - 80 ml
Cummin Paste - 2 tsp
Green Chilli Paste - 2 tsp
Ginger Paste - 1 tbsp
Poppy Seed Paste - 2 tsp
Cashew Paste - 2 tsp
Lemon Juice - 1 lemon
Salt - to taste
Oil - 100 gms
Fresh Coriander Leaves - 15 gms
Whole Green Coconut - 4 nos

Method

    Completely shell and de-vein the prawns, wash in cold water.

    Rub with lemon juice and salt and keep aside for 30 minutes.

    Taken oil in a handi and add onion paste. Bhunno (simmer) till oil leaves the sides. Add ginger paste. Stir.

    Add poppy and cashew paste and bhunno till it smells of roasted nut. Add cummin and green chilli paste.

    Cook for 2 minutes and add milk and coconut milk. Simmer for about 15 minutes till gravy is set.

    Add the prawns and simmer till cooked.

    Add the water of green tender coconut and reduce to pouring consistency. Add salt to season.

    Cut the ends of the green coconut and preserve the shell of the head for covering.

    Pour the curry into the shell and cook for 20 minutes on a water bath, immersing the stuffed green coconuts till half water level.

    Serve hot in the shell garnished with fresh coriander leaves. 

------------------------------------------

Shukto
Serves-4
Cooking time: 30 mins

- Small Bitter Gourds- 14
- Brinjal,medium- 2
- Mooli(White Radish)
- Peas- ½ cup
- Potato medum sized- 5
- Green Banana- 1
- Ginger paste- 1 teaspoon
- Panch Foran1 teaspoon
(Five basic spices mixed in equal proportion: mustard, Aniseed, Fenugreek, Cumin and Onion seeds).
- Sugar- 1 teaspoon
- Coriander paste- 1 teaspoon
- Milk- half cup
- Bayleaf- 1
- Mustard Paste- 1 tablespoon
- Salt to taste
- Cooking oil- 2 tablespoon
- Plain Flour- ½ teaspoon 	


Cut the radish into thin and long pieces. Peel the potato and the Green banana and cut them into small long pieces. Cut the Brinjal and the Bitter Gourd in small long strips. Heat the oil in a pan. Add the Bitter Gourd in the oil. Toss them for a minute and add all the vegetables except the brinjal and the peas. Stirfry these vegetables for 5 minutes and then add the Mustard paste, and Coriander paste. Pour half cup of water. Once the water in the pan starts boiling add the brinjal, peas, salt and sugar. Cover the pan with its lid allowing the vegetables to cook. After a while remove the lid and check if the vegetables are cooked. If they are move them aside. Heat another table spoon of cooking oil in a pan. Add the Panch Foran and the Bay leaf in the hot oil. Once the Panch Foran starts sizzling pour all the vegetables in it. Mix the flour in the milk and pour it over the vegetables. Reduce the heat and wait until it boils. Once it boils and it thickens it is done.

Serve it with hot white rice.
----------------------------------------------
Kashmiri Biryani Recipe

Ingredients:
• 750 gms Mutton
• 1 kg Chicken
• 1 kg Basmati rice
• 200 ml Milk
• 2 tsp Curds
• 1 tsp Dry ginger powder
• 1/4 tsp Cardamom powder
• 150 gms Ghee
• 1/4 tsp Kewra essence
• 2 gms Saffron
• 2 tsp Red chilli powder
• 1 Pinch asafoetida
• 1 tsp Garam masala powder
• 2 tsp Fennel seed powder
• 1/4 tsp Sugar
• Salt to taste
How to make Kashmiri Biryani:
•	Fry asafetida and mutton pieces in ghee.
•	Add curds to the mixture and fry till pink.
•	Pour water and add salt to taste. Mix well.
•	Add chilli powder, ginger powder and bay leaf.
•	Fry for a few minutes and add 1/2 litre water.
•	Add 1/2 tbsp garam masala and 1tbsp fennel seeds.
•	Simmer the mixture till well cooked.
•	Remove mutton pieces and keep them separate.
•	Boil 2 litres of water with 2 tbsp salt.
•	Tie garam masala and remaining fennel seeds in a piece of cloth.
•	Put it in the boiling water.
•	Now add rice and cook on low flame till half done.
•	Separate water from the rice.
•	Alternately arrange mutton and rice layers in a baking tray.
•	Add milk and ghee.
•	Cook in a preheated oven till well done.

------------------------------------------------------------------

Kashmiri Mutton



Ingredients

Cleaned mutton    :    ½  kilo
Salt    :    1 tsp
Ghee    :    2 tbsp
Ginger garlic paste    :    1½ tsp
Poppy seeds    :    1 tbsp
Badam    :    10

Grind to a paste

Peppercorns    :    1 tsp
Cardamom    :    4
Cinnamon    :    1 inch piece
Cumin    :    ½ tsp
Turmeric powder    :    ½ tsp
Papaya    :     25 gm
Coriander leaves    :    1 bunch

Method

Cut mutton into small pieces and wash.
Fry poppy seeds and badam without oil and grind to a paste.
Mix mutton pieces, ginger garlic paste, poppy seeds paste, ground masala paste, salt, knead well and let it marinate for 1 hour.
Heat ghee in a frying pan.
Add mutton pieces with masala and fry for sometime.
Add water as necessary and cook.
When the mutton is cooked soft and ghee leaves the contents, remove the pan from the stove.
Kashmiri mutton masala can be served with rice, chappathi, parotta, pulav and biriyani. 


--------------------------------------
Kashmiri biriyani

Ingredients:

    1 kg baby potatoes (or any small potatoes)
    1 tsp cumin seeds roasted gently and ground into a powder
    1 tsp garam masala
    3-4 Kashmiri red chillies roasted and powdered
    2 1/2 cups fresh yoghurt (must not be sour)
    1 tsp ginger powder
    1 tbsp fennel/aniseed powder
    1/2 tsp cardamom powder
    4 tbsps mustard oil
    6 cloves roasted and powdered
    A pinch of asafetida
    Vegetable/ canola/ sunflower cooking oil to deep fry potatoes
    Salt to taste
    A cup of firm dough made from flour and water

Preparation:

    Mix a teaspoon of salt in a bowl of water (about 3 cups). Poke the potatoes with a fork and then soak in this water for 20 minutes.
    Heat the oil for deep frying, on a medium flame. Fry all the potatoes till golden brown. Drain on paper towels and keep aside.
    Mix the yoghurt, Kashmiri chilli, ginger, cardamom and fennel powders. Add the potatoes to this mix and keep aside.
    Heat mustard oil in another pan on a medium flame.
    Add the clove powder and asafetida and mix well. Add a half cup of hot water and salt to taste and bring to a boil.
    Add this to the potato-yoghurt mix, stir thoroughly and cover.
    Seal the edges of the pan's cover with the dough to ensure no steam can escape. Put on the stove, cook on a low flame for 10-15 minutes.
    Turn off the flame, remove the cover and add the cumin and garam masala powders, and cover again quickly. Leave for 5 minutes.
    Serve hot with Chapatis (Indian flatbread) or Naan (Tandoor-roasted Indian flatbread).

--------------------------------------------
Dhingri Dolma

Ingredients for the Dhingri Dolma for 2 servings:

    200 gms of button mushrooms
    175 gms paneer (cottage cheese)
    1/2 tsp shahjeera (black cumin seeds/caraway seeds)
    1 onion
    1 tomato
    1/2 inch ginger
    1 or 2 tsp ginger garlic paste
    1/2 tsp white pepper powder ( as an alternative you can use black pepper powder as I have done)
    1/4 tsp red chili powder
    1/4 tsp garam masala powder
    1/4 cup coriander leaves/cilantro leaves
    2 tbsp ghee or oil
    salt

Method to make Dhingri Dolma:

The preparation:

    Wash the mushrooms and slice them.

chopped-button-mushrooms

    Dice the onions, dice the tomatoes. You can even see garlic in the pic. Thats for making the ginger garlic paste.

    Grate the paneer coarsely.

grated-paneer

    I never use readymade ginger garlic paste. I always crush both ginger and garlic freshly in a mortar pestle to make the paste.

    Also you could keep the garnish ingredients ready.

The cooking:

    Heat ghee or oil in a kadhai. Add the black cumin and fry till till it crackles.

shah-jeera-spluterring-in-ghee

    Add onions.

    Saute the onions until light brown.

onions-becoming-browned

    Add the ginger garlic paste and saute till the raw smell of the paste disappears.

    Add mushrooms  and stir. Saute for 2 minutes.

sauting-mushrooms

    Add the red chili powder, pepper powder and salt. Saute for 2-3 minutes more till the mushrooms are cooked.

adding-red-chili-powder-salt-pepper-powder

    Now add the paneer.

adding-grated-paneer

    Mix the paneer with the rest of the mixture and cook for 4-5 minutes, stirring in between.

    Add the tomatoes and saute for 4-5 minutes more. You just want to cook the tomatoes and not make it mushy.

sauting-tomatoes

    Towards the end sprinkle garam masala and stir.

sprinkling-garam-masala

    Add some chopped coriander leaves and julienned ginger keep the remaining to be used for garnish later.

adding-coriander-leaves-ginger

    Adjust the seasoning. Remove in a bowl or a dish and garnish with the remaining ginger and coriander.

dingri-dolma-recipe

    Serve hot or warm with phulkas. This recipe even goes well with breads.

------------------------------------------------------

Dum Phukt




Ingredients
3 cups chopped spinach
2 large onoins chopped fine
2 large potatoes boiled and peeled
1 tomato grated
2 green chillies
1" piece ginger
1 tsp. lemon juice
1/2 tsp. wheat or other flour
1 tsp. red chilli powder
1 tsp. cinnamon-clove powder
1/4 tsp. turmeric powder
1/2 tsp cumin seeds
2 pinches asafoetida
1/2 tsp. garam masala
1/2 tbsp. butter
4 tbsp. ghee
salt to taste

METHOD:
Put the washed spinach in a pan, add very little water (just a sprinkle) and a pinch of salt.
Cover and boil over a high flame for 2 minutes. Cool quickly, or hold under running water in a colander.
Put in a mixie, add green chilli and run for a minute. Keep slightly coarse, do not make very smooth.
Keep aside.
Cut the potatoes into big pieces. Heat ghee and fry potatoes till light brown.
Drain the potatoes, keep aside.
In the same hot ghee add the cumin seeds.
Add the ginger, onions and fry till very tender.
Add the tomato and further fry for two minutes.
Add all the dry masalas and fry till ghee separates.
Add spinach and potatoes.
When it resumes a boil sprinkle the flour and stir well. Boil for 2-3 minutes. Add lemon juice
Just before s erving heat butter in a tiny saucepan and add the asafoetida.
Pour over the vegetable and mix gently.
Serve hot with naan or parathas or even rice.
Note: You may use boiled peas, boiled corn kernels or paneer chunks in the above dish, instead of potatoes.
Making time: 45 minutes
Makes for: 6
Shelf life: Best fresh 

------------------------------------------------
BHINDI ANARDANA 



Preparation Time : 10-15 minutes
Cooking Time : 20-25 minutes
Servings : 4
INGREDIENTS
Ladyfingers (bhindi), slit 
400 grams Pomegranate (anar)
2 tablespoons Oil
3 tablespoons Cumin seeds
1 teaspoon
Green chilli, chopped
2-3 Small onions
12-15 Red chilli powder 
1/4 teaspoon Turmeric powder
1/4 teaspoon Coriander powder
1 teaspoon Dry mango powder (amchur)
1/2 teaspoon Saltto taste
1/2 teaspoon Garam masala 
1/2 tablespoon Lemon juice
METHOD
Put the anardana in a non-stick pan and dry roast lightly on low heat. Spread it on the tabletop and crush with a rolling pin. Heat sufficient oil in a non-stick kadai. Add cumin seeds and sauté lightly. Add green chillies and small onions and sauté till the onions become soft. Add ladyfingers and sauté for a while. Add red chilli powder, turmeric powder, coriander powder, dried mango powder and salt. Toss well. When the ladyfingers are almost done add the crushed anardana, garam masala powder and lemon juice and mix well. Serve hot.
